         TITLE 'MONSOON'                                                        
    This is a brief overview of Monsoon.  It begins with a short                
description of what Monsoon does, then describes in detail those aspects        
of Monsoon's execution which may be controlled by the user.                     
                                                                                
    Prior to the advent of Monsoon, soon requests consisted of JCL which        
was written to the print queue and submitted by the internal reader to          
JES for execution as a batch job.  Under Monsoon, neither the internal          
reader nor JES is used any longer.  Rather, Monsoon scans all print             
queues at predetermined time intervals, and finds JCL which is waiting          
for execution.  It then interprets a portion of this JCL to determine           
whether that request is a candidate to be run by this particular Monsoon.       
It builds a table of these requests, sorts the requests based upon the          
current operating parameters, and uses the ATTACH macro to execute each         
soon request, one at a time.  When it has completed all requests that it        
has found, it waits until the expiration of the specified time interval,        
and then starts over again looking for more soon requests to run.  Each         
search of the print queues is referred to as one "go-round."                    
                                                                                
    Most importantly, Monsoon only runs one request at any given time,          
so in order to run more than one soon request simultaneously, more than         
one Monsoon must be started.  Each Monsoon may be thought of as one JES         
initiator, although Monsoon does not interface with JES at all.                 
Likewise, any occurrence of a Monsoon does not speak to any other               
Monsoon.  The only way that a Monsoon knows the status of any individual        
request is by examining its status on the print queue.                          
                                                                                
    Some aspects of Monsoon's choices of which requests to run and in           
what order are beyond operator control.  For example, once Monsoon has          
built its table of requests, the order in which they are sorted is first        
on job priority (from the PRTY= option on the JOB card), and then on            
time of request submission.  However, we have attempted to make the             
Monsoons to be as collectively efficient as possible by providing many          
startup parameters, so that Operations can juggle the various Monsoons          
to provide maximum soon request throughput.  For example, there are             
parameter cards that control which requests are placed into Monsoon's           
table in the first place, and then others which control the sequence in         
which those selected jobs are executed.                                         
                                                                                
                                                                                
    These are the currently supported parameter cards to Monsoon:               
                                                                                
CLASS=ALL                       Monsoon will run the job regardless of          
                                 its class.                                     
                                                                                
CLASS=Cls1=n,Cls2,Cls3=m. . .   Monsoon will run only those jobs which are      
                                 of the listed classes.  Furthermore, in        
                                 this example, Monsoon will run n jobs from     
                                 Cls1, all jobs from Cls2, and m jobs from      
                                 Cls3, all during one go-round of the print     
                                 queues.  (Multiple CLASS= cards are OK).       
                                                                                
CLASSPRTY=YES/NO                If YES, Monsoon will assume that the list       
                                 of classes given in the CLASS= card is         
                                 prioritized, and will make the class the       
                                 primary sort key, ahead of job PRTY and        
                                 time of submission (default=NO).               
                                                                                
REFRESH=n                       Tells Monsoon to re-search the print queues     
                                 after running only n requests, no matter how   
                                 many more are in its table.                    
                                                                                
REFRESH=PRTY<n                  Tells Monsoon to re-search the print queues     
                                 upon finding a request with priority < n.      
                                 This request will be attached if and only if   
                                 no requests of higher priority are waiting.    
                                                                                
USERMAXREQ=n                    Monsoon will only run n requests for this       
                                 userid during this go-round (default=5).       
                                                                                
TYPE=UPDATE                     Monsoon only attaches updative soon requests.   
                                                                                
TYPE=NOUPDATE                   Monsoon only attaches non-updative soons.       
                                                                                
USERID=ABC                      Monsoon only runs requests submitted by this    
                                 DDS userid.                                    
                                                                                
EXUSERID=ABC                    Monsoon excludes any requests submitted by      
                                 this DDS userid.  (Max 20 of these.)           
                                                                                
SUBID=XYZ                       Monsoon only runs requests with this sub-id     
                                 (a.k.a. the requestor's initials).             
                                                                                
REFNUM=n                        Monsoon runs only the request with this         
                                 reference number (USERID card must also be     
                                 given).                                        
                                                                                
MINTIME=n                       Monsoon only attaches requests of age n         
                                 minutes or older.                              
                                                                                
MINPRTY=n                       Monsoon only attaches requests of priority n    
                                 or higher.                                     
                                                                                
MAXPRTY=n                       Monsoon only attaches requests of priority n    
                                 or lower.                                      
                                                                                
DATE=YESTERDAY                  Monsoon only attaches requests made prior to    
                                 today.                                         
                                                                                
WAITSECS=n                      Monsoon will wait n seconds of real time        
                                 between print queue searches.                  
                                                                                
REQTIMER=n                      If an attached request is running for a         
                                 relatively long time, Monsoon will put a       
                                 warning message to the console every n         
                                 minutes of real time (default = 5).            
                                                                                
REQTIMER=NONE                   Monsoon will never warn the console about       
                                 long-running requests.                         
                                                                                
JESMSG=YES/NO                   Monsoon puts messages to the console before     
                                 and after each attach (default = NO).          
                                                                                
FACPAK=X                        Monsoon only attaches requests submitted from   
                                 a particular facpak.                           
                                                                                
FACPAK=-X                       Monsoon excludes requests submitted from a      
                                 particular facpak.                             
                                                                                
MONSOONID=xxxxxxxx              Monsoon issues an MVS ENQ macro with this name  
                                 (to prevent multiple identical Monsoons).      
                                                                                
ENQJOBNAME=YES                  Monsoon issues an MVS ENQ with the the request  
                                 "jobname" to prevent identical requests from   
                                 running simultaneously.                        
                                                                                
EXREPORT=SPP                    Monsoon excludes requests with the given system 
                                 and program (ex: SI2 means exclude SPOT I2s).  
                                                                                
                                                                                
The following parameter cards are really only for debugging/testing:            
                                                                                
ATTACH=NO                       Don't attach requests; just find them.          
                                                                                
DDSIO=xxxxx                     Use an alternate version of DDSIO.              
