SOON processing                                           4/16/90               
---------------                                                                 
                                                                                
                                                                                
   This document describes the way in which Soon processing works with          
the advent of MONSOON.  In many ways, it is not significantly different         
from the methodology in which Soon jobs ran under JES.  However, in the         
interest of sanity, here is an outline of the basic algorithm.                  
                                                                                
   Soon processing begins when JCL is written to a print queue by a             
request program or controller.  The JCL remains in the control interval         
until it is overwritten by the actual report upon execution.  During            
this process, there are two critical attribute bits to watch out for:           
                                                                                
        QLATJOBO off, and QLATJOBI on  = report contains JCL                    
        QLATJOBO on,  and QLATJOBI on  = report is currently running            
        QLATJOBO on,  and QLATJOBO off = report is completed                    
        QLATJOBO off, and QLATJOBO off = report never had JCL in it             
                                                                                
The JCL is actually written by FAPOWWOW, which is called by FASPOON.            
FASPOON is responsible for the construction of the JCL (including the           
control and request cards), and FAPOWWOW writes it to the print queues.         
                                                                                
   In addition to their print queue functions, FAPOWWOW and FASPOON also        
help to inform DDS and users about the status of Soon jobs.  In FATAB,          
a "job table" is defined which contains an entry for every Soon job             
submitted; the $RUN service request displays the contents of this table.        
It is FASPOONs job to locate and lock a free entry in this table, and to        
fill it in after the JCL has been written by FAPOWWOW.  (Note:  it is           
critical that each table entry be aligned on a full-word boundary.  This        
is required by the CS instruction, which is used to lock each entry.)           
                                                                                
    FAPOWWOW has the job of updating TWA page 11 for the terminal which         
submitted the Soon job.  TWA 11 contains a list of all Soon jobs                
submitted by that terminal throughout the day.  When FAPOWWOW adds the          
table entry, it is given a status of "SUBMITTED".  The $JOB service             
request can be used to examine this list.                                       
                                                                                
    The actual execution of the Soon JCL is performed by MONSOON.  This         
program reads the print queues for reports containing JCL, and                  
