The management of working storage is a critical part of all DDS systems.  Much  
of DDS software runs under the control of FACPAK, which allows multiple         
transactions to be processed simultaneously, even by the same applications      
program.  To allow this, all modules must be reenterable, which means that they 
must not store data anywhere except in Working Storage, and that a new Working  
Storage area must be assigned each time a new transaction is processed.         
                                                                                
                                                                                
To meet this requirement, FACPAK allocates a new block of Working Storage as the
processing of each transaction is initiated.  This area of storage must then be 
split up and used by all of the  modules that together process the transaction. 
DDS has established standards for each module to use to obtain its own Working  
Storage from this common area, and to pass the rest of the area to the modules  
it calls.  Understanding the way this works, and being able to follow the       
resulting chain of storage areas will be of great help in solving programming   
problems.                                                                       
                                                                                
                                                                                
When a module calls a DDS module, it must provide in register 13 (RD) the       
address of a Save Area.  This is the same convention followed by the MVS        
Operating System, however DDS also specifies that the Save Area must be at the  
very front of the Working Storage area being passed to the called module.  This 
way, one pointer passes both the Save Area, and the Working Storage area.       
                                                                                
The called module will typically begin with the DDS NBASE macro.  This macro    
performs the following functions:                                               
                                                                                
       ->The registers (except RD) are all stored in the Save Area.             
       ->The address of the first location after the Save Area is put in        
         RC, this is the base register for the module's Working Storage.        
       ->The address of the first location after the module's Working           
         Storage is put in RD, this is the new Save Area.                       
       ->Forward and Backward pointers are maintained, chaining the Save        
         Areas together.                                                        
       ->The identification of the called module is put in the front of         
         the Save Area.                                                         
                                                                                
                                                                                
The NTR1 macro performs similar functions, but since it is intended for use     
within a module by a local subroutine, a new Working Storage area is not set up.
This chaining of Save Areas and Working Storage areas is called the RD chain.   
Here is what the RD chain looks like:                                           
<PA>                                                                            
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------         
  º Identification º Backward Chain º Forward Chain  º Register E     º         
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------         
  º Register F     º Register 0     º Register 1     º Register 2     º         
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------         
  º Register 3     º Register 4     º Register 5     º Register 6     º         
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------         
  º Register 7     º Register 8     º Register 9     º Register A     º         
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------         
  º Register B     º Register C     º Start of module's Working Storage         
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         
  º                                                                   º         
  º     Amount of storage is determined by NMOD1 Macro                º         
  º                                                                   º         
  º     The NTR1 macro does not reserve any storage                   º         
  º                                                                   º         
  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .         
    End of Module's Working Storage º Start of Next Save Area         º         
  ---------------------------------------------------------------------         
                                                                                
                                                                                
The XIT1 and XBASE macros are used to exit DDS modules.  They use the backwards 
link in the save area to restore the previous registers.  This restores the     
provious Save Area, and the previous Working Storage area.                      
                                                                                
